Blogs
=====

Blogs are used to publish current information and allow commentary by
readers to form an online conversation. A successful blog can be
syndicated to other websites over various standards such as RSS
(Really Simple Syndication). Sitefinity makes it easy to create blogs
for as many groups or subjects as needed. You could have a blog for
each subject your site covers, such as a blog for each department in
your organization, or even a blog for each person in smaller
organizations. The blog will contain blog *posts*, that is, articles
that relate to the blog content.

When someone says \"I wrote a blog\", they are usually talking about a
\"blog post\". The blog itself is the container that holds blog posts.

##### Creating a Blog

This walk-through shows how to create a blog that will later contain posts.

1.  Drop down the Content menu and select Blogs.

2.  Click the Create a Blog link. This will display the Create a Blog
    page.

3.  Set the Title to \"SuperCars Blog\".

![](../media/image117.png)

4.  Click the Create this blog button. This will display the Blog Posts page.

##### Blog Posts

Now that you have created a blog, that is, the container for posts,
you can create the actual blog posts that contain the content.

1.  From the Blog posts page, click the Create a post link.

![](../media/image123.png)

2.  In the Create a post page, enter a Title, then text to the HTML
    editor.

![](../media/image125.jpeg)

3.  From the More actions button at the top right of the page select
    Publish/Unpublish on a Specific Date. Using the date and time
    pickers for the Publication date, set a date in the future that
    lands on a Monday at 6am.

![](../media/image129.png)
![](../media/image129B.png)

#### Note: 
When it comes to blogging, all days of the week are not
created equal. Late in the week, blog posts get lost in the shuffle
and won\'t be read. Early Monday, the new blog posts come in and bury
the posts from Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The scheduling feature
makes it easy to write your blogs at any time of the week and schedule
them to show up at the optimum time.

5.  The Blog Posts page shows the new post with the \"Clock\" icon and
    the scheduled publish date and time.

![](../media/image131.png)

6.  We will want to see this blog immediately, so click Publish from the
    Actions menu.

7.  Click the All blogs link.

![](../media/image133.png)

8.  From the Blogs page you can see the new blog has a single post. From
    here you can Create a post, use the Edit posts link to list all the
    posts for this blog or use the Actions drop down to Delete, edit the
    Title & Properties or edit the Permissions.

![](../media/image135.png)

##### Using Blog Widgets

In this example, we only have a single blog post, but you can have as
many blogs and blog posts as you like. You can also use as many Blog
widgets on the page as you need to display listings of multiple blog
posts or smaller groups of blog posts.

1.  Click the Pages menu item.

2.  Create a new child page under the \"Welcome\" page titled \"Blogs\",
    pick a template for it and start the editing.

3.  Drag a Blog Posts widget to one of the boxes on the page. Notice
    that the blog post shows up immediately. This is OK when you only
    have a single post, but you will need a way to select which blog
    posts show.

4.  Click the widget's Edit link. Click the From selected blogs only\...
    option. The Blogs dialog will look similar to the News and Events
    dialog where you have a Content link, a List Settings and Single
    Item Settings. The Content link shows all blogs or only selected
    blogs. You can narrow down the blogs to a single post or select
    posts by a combination of categories, tags and dates.

5.  Click the Select a blog button.

![](../media/image138.png)

6.  Select the blog you created earlier and then click the Done
    selecting button.

![](../media/image140.png)

7.  Click the List Settings link. It should look like the following settings dialog

![](../media/image142.png)

Like News and Events, you can limit the number of items in the list to
an exact amount, to a certain number of items per page or simply dump
everything onto the page at once. Use the Sort blog posts drop down to
sort by last published, last modified, alphabetically or As Set in
Advanced mode. The List template drop down controls the format of the
list as we have seen in the News widgets.

8.  Click the Save button to close the dialog.

9.  Publish and view the page.

![](../media/image144.jpeg)

#### Next Topic
[Events](../Events/readme.md)