Introduction
============

##### What is a CMS and why do you need one?

A Content Management System (CMS) allows multiple people to contribute
website content from any location. Before CMS, one person received
email with web change requests, managed all the code and recompiled
the entire site for each change. Even the graphic web designer, who
made changes continually, had to send email to that one person. That
one person was the bottleneck.

What about business users? Each business group (marketing, accounting,
sales, etc.) wants to own their particular area without the bother of
sending a ticket to an IT department and waiting for the ticket to be
received and processed.

CMS lets you split up the work for the web site and store the results
in a single database or file system. Web designers can completely
change website look-and-feel without having to know anything about
content. Business users can create news, events and blogs and
completely ignore how their content is presented. CMS \"workflow\"
allows documents to be approved or rejected before being published,
e.g. accounting makes their own changes and submits for approval while
a manager verifies that numbers being published to the outside world
do not conflict with company policies.

While Sitefinity makes it easy to set up the initial website, you must
think about maintaining and extending the website later for new
capabilities. You can maintain Sitefinity content in one place and
reuse the content everywhere. Maintenance is largely a matter of
point-and-click, drag-and-drop. Sitefinity is completely extensible so
that developers can integrate with 3rd party packages (e.g.
Salesforce), add new custom widgets and modules.

#### Next Topic
[Getting Started](../Getting%20Started/readme.md)
